Daman & Diu revokes mandatory Rakshabandhan in offices order	The Administration of Union Territory Daman and Diu has revoked its order that made it compulsory for women to tie rakhis to their male colleagues on the occasion of Rakshabandhan on August 7. The administration was forced to withdraw the decision within 24 hours of issuing the circular after it received flak from employees and was slammed on social media.	The Daman and Diu administration on Wednesday withdrew a circular that asked women staff to tie rakhis on male colleagues after the order triggered a backlash from employees and was ripped apart on social media.The union territory?s administration was forced to retreat within 24 hours of issuing the circular that made it compulsory for its staff to celebrate Rakshabandhan at workplace.?It has been decided to celebrate the festival of Rakshabandhan on August 7. In this connection, all offices/ departments shall remain open and celebrate the festival collectively at a suitable time wherein all the lady staff shall tie rakhis to their colleagues,? the order, issued on August 1 by Gurpreet Singh, deputy secretary (personnel), had said.To ensure that no one skipped office, an attendance report was to be sent to the government the next evening.The two notifications ? one mandating the celebration of Rakshabandhan (left) and the other withdrawing the mandate (right) ? were issued by the Daman and Diu administration a day apart. The circular was withdrawn through a one-line order issued late in the evening by the UT?s department of personnel and administrative reforms.?The circular is ridiculous. There are sensitivities involved. How can the government dictate who I should tie rakhi to? We should maintain the professionalism of a workplace? an official told Hindustan Times earlier in the day. She refused to be identified.The notice was issued on Daman and Diu administrator and former Gujarat home minister Praful Kodabhai Patel?s direction, sources said.Rakshabandhan, a celebration of the bond between brothers and sisters, is one of several Hindu festivities and rituals that are no longer confined of private, family affairs but have become tools to push politic al ideologies.In 2014, the year BJP stormed to power at the Centre, Rashtriya Swayamsevak Sangh (RSS) chief Mohan Bhagwat said the festival had ?national significance? and should be celebrated widely ?to protect Hindu culture and live by the values enshrined in it?. The RSS is the ideological parent of the ruling BJP.Last year, women ministers in the Modi government went to the border areas to celebrate the festival with soldiers. A year before, all cabinet ministers were asked to go to their constituencies for the festival.	1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0
Malaika slams user who trolled her for 'divorcing rich man' 	Malaika Arora slammed an Instagram user who trolled her for "divorcing a rich man" and "having fun with the alimony". "Her life now is all about wearing short clothes, going to gym or salon, enjoying vacation[s]," the user commented. Malaika responded, "You certainly got to get your damn facts right before spewing sh*t on me...when you know nothing about me."	From her special numbers to TV?appearances, Bollywood actor Malaika Arora Khan has managed to carve her own identity. The actor, who made her debut in the Hindi film industry with the blockbuster debut opposite Shah Rukh Khan in Chaiyya Chaiyya from Dil Se (1998), is still remembered for the song. However, for trolls, she is a woman first and what matters right now is that she divorced a ?rich man?.  On Wednesday, Malaika Arora shared a gorgeous picture of herself on Instagram and a follower decided to troll her for using her ?alumni? (read alimony) money to wear ?short clothes and going to gym or salon?. Little did he/she know that the Munni Badnam star would reply with the perfect comeback. Take a look at the interaction:     Super excited to be affiliated with Khanna Jewellers @khannajewellerskj as their brand ambassador. Crafted to perfection, their stunning statement jewellery is a must have for every jewellery lover. #khannajewellers...#maksquad?? #hair @hairbypriyanka #stylist @manekaharisinghani #manager @ektakauroberoi #mua? @subbu28 #photographer @prasdnaik A post shared by Malaika Arora Khan (@malaikaarorakhanofficial) on Aug 2, 2017 at 6:20am PDT Then, Malaika decided to reply: The entire conversation only proves that no matter if a woman is successful, she will be attacked the moment she decides to step out of bounds the society decided for her. Apart from being a successful woman who lives life on her own terms, Malaika has literally played all the roles traditionally prescribed for a woman - she married quite early, had a son and raised him and was always around with the ?khandan?. But then, she got divorced and alimony is the taunt being thrown at her. The details of the alimony are only known to Malaika, her husband Arbaaz Khan and perhaps the family. The couple has handled the divorce with the utmost dignity. But we can vouch for the fact that she did not  need an alimony to buy clothes (short or not, her choice), go on vacations and enjoy her life. If anything, she is as successful, if not more, than her ex-husband.What happened between Arbaaz and Malaika is their personal concern. But to claim that Malaika married and then divorced Arbaaz for money doesn?t hold water. For those who do not agree, please get a course in feminism and for others, here?s a playlist of some of her most popular songs. Follow @htshowbiz for more	1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1
'Virgin' now corrected to 'Unmarried' in IGIMS' form	The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna on Thursday made corrections in its Marital Declaration Form by changing 'Virgin' option to 'Unmarried'. Earlier, Bihar Health Minister defined virgin as being an unmarried woman and did not consider the term objectionable. The institute, however, faced strong backlash for asking new recruits to declare their virginity in the form.	The Indira Gandhi Institute of Medical Sciences (IGIMS) in Patna amended its marital declaration form on Thursday, replacing the word ?virgin? with ?unmarried? after controversy.Until now, new recruits to the super-specialty medical institute in the state capital were required to declare if they were bachelors, widowers or virgins.IGIMS medical superintendent Dr Manish Mandal said institute director Dr NR Biswas held a meeting on Thursday morning before directing that the word ?virgin? on the marital declaration form be immediately replaced with ?unmarried?. Dr Biswas had just returned after a four-day leave of absence.Earlier, Bihar health minister Mangal Pandey had ended up redefining the very meaning of virginity in his attempts to justify the awkward phrasing of the question in the form. Following a public furore over the document on Wednesday, the minister told news channels that there was nothing wrong with using the word ?virgin? because it simply meant ?kanya? or ?kunwari? ? which means an unmarried girl.Pandey had joined the cabinet just three days ago.Sources said the chief minister?s office had also taken cognizance of the issue, and asked for a copy of the form. It had even asked why the question was introduced in the first place.In its response, the management of the autonomous super-specialty health facility had clarified on Wednesday that it was in adherence to the central civil services rules followed by the All India Institute of Medical Sciences in New Delhi.The previous version of the marital declaration form, which purportedly asked new recruits if they were virgins.
							(HT Photo)
						The marital declaration form had been in existence since the inception of the institute in 1983. Some officials blamed the faux pas on poor translation on the part of individuals who drafted the document.?The word ?virgin? mentioned on the form had nothing to do with the virginity of any employee. It only sought to know the employees? marital status, so their dues could be settled on the basis of their declaration in the event of death while in service,? said Dr Mandal.	1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0
Aaj aapne pakad liya: LeT man Dujana before being killed	Lashkar-e-Taiba's Kashmir commander Abu Dujana, who was killed by security forces, said "Kabhi hum aage, kabhi aap, aaj aapne pakad liya, mubarak ho aapko (Today you caught me. Congratulations)" after being caught. He added that he won't surrender, and whatever is in his fate will happen to him. "Hum nikley they shaheed hone (had left home for martyrdom)," he added.	Lashkar-e-Taiba's Kashmir commander Abu Dujana was killed in an encounter in a village in Pulwama district of Jammu and Kashmir earlier this week. Dujana, who had managed to give the security forces a slip several times in the past, carried a bounty of Rs 15 lakh on his head.Reports say that Dujana had come to meet his wife when he was trapped inside a house in Hakripora village. Security officials involved in the encounter tried their best to convince Dujana to surrender but he refused, reports say.According to reports, Dujana rejected call for surrender from an Army officer. The Army had commissioned a local to start a telephonic conversation with Dujana. After initiating the talk, the local villager handed over the phone to the army officer."Kya haal hai? Maine kaha, kya haal hai (How are you. I asked, how are you)?" Dujana is heard asking the officer. The officer replies: "Humara haal chhor Dujana. Surrender kyun nahi kar deta. Tu galat kar rha hai (Why don't you surrender? You have married this girl. What you are doing isn't right.)"When told that he is being used by Pakistani agencies as a pawn, Dujana, who sounded calm and unperturbed of the situation, said "Hum nikley they shaheed hone. Main kya karu. Jisko game khelna hai, khelo. Kabhi hum aage, kabhi aap, aaj aapne pakad liya, mubarak ho aapko. Jisko jo karna hai karlo (I had left home for martyrdom. What can I do? Today you caught me. Congratulations. "Surrender nahi kar sakta. Jo meri kismat may likha hoga, Allah wahi karega, theek hai? (I won't surrender. Allaah would do whatever is there in my fate)" Dujana went on to say. Dujana, who belonged to Pakistan, was Lashkar-e-Taiba's divisional commander in south Kashmir. He was among the top 10 terrorists identified by the Indian Army in Jammu and Kashmir.With a Rs 15 lakh bounty on his head, Dujana was labelled an 'A++' terrorist - the top grade which was also given to Burhan Wani.Security forces received inputs that during the last few days he was frequenting the houses of his wife Rukaiya and girlfriend Shazia. Police was keeping a watch on both the houses. when it was confirmed he was present in his wife's house, security forces moved in to trap him.ALSO READ:After Abu Dujana, security forces prepare new hitlist of most wanted terroristsAbu Dujana encounter: Jilted lover turned police informer led security forces to LeT commander	1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1
Hotel staff to get training to spot signs of sex trafficking	Hotels in Maharashtra will train their staff to spot signs of sex trafficking, including frequent requests for bed linen changes and 'Do not disturb' signs left on room doors for days. A mobile phone app called Rescue Me, which will allow staff to alert police of suspicious behaviour, will be developed. The initiative has been backed by the Maharashtra government.	Hotels in Mumbai and other Indian cities are to train their staff to spot signs of sex trafficking such as frequent requests for bed linen changes or a "Do not disturb" sign left on the door for days on end. The group behind the initiative is also developing a mobile phone app - Rescue Me - which hotel staff can use to alert local police and senior anti-trafficking officers if they see suspicious behavior. "Hotels are breeding grounds for human trade," said Sanee Awsarmmel, chairman of the alumni group of Maharashtra State Institute of Hotel Management and Catering Technology. "(We) have hospitality professionals working in hotels across the country. We are committed to this cause."The initiative, spearheaded by the alumni group and backed by the Maharashtra state government, comes amid growing international recognition that hotels have a key role to play in fighting modern day slavery. MAHARASHTRA MAJOR DESTINATION FOR TRAFFICKED GIRLS Maharashtra, of which Mumbai is the capital, is a major destination for trafficked girls who are lured from poor states and nearby countries on the promise of jobs, but then sold into the sex trade or domestic servitude. With rising property prices, some traditional red light districts like those in Mumbai have started to disappear pushing the sex trade underground into private lodges and hotels, which makes it hard for police to monitor.Awsarmmel said hotels would be told about 50 signs that staff needed to watch out for.These include requests for rooms with a view of the car park which are favored by traffickers as they allow them to vet clients for signs of trouble and check out their cars to gauge how much to charge.Awsarmmel said hotel staff often noticed strange behavior such as a girl's reticence during the check-in process or her dependence on the person accompanying her to answer questions and provide her proof of identity.But in most cases, staff ignore these signs or have no idea what to do, he told the Thomson Reuters Foundation.RESCUE ME APP The Rescue Me app - to be launched in a couple of months - will have a text feature where hotel staff can fill in details including room numbers to send an alert to police.Human trafficking is the world's fastest growing criminal enterprise worth an estimated $150 billion a year, according to the International Labor Organization, which says nearly 21 million people globally are victims of forced labor and trafficking.Last year, major hotel groups, including the Hilton and Shiva Hotels, pledged to examine their supply chains for forced labor, and train staff how to spot and report signs of trafficking.Earlier this year, Mexico City also launched an initiative to train hotel staff about trafficking.Vijaya Rahatkar, chairwoman of the Maharashtra State Women's Commission, said the initiative would have an impact beyond the state as the alumni group had contact with about a million small hotels across India.The group is also developing a training module on trafficking for hotel staff and hospitality students which could be used across the country.ALSO READFYI | Legal revenge: Child sex trafficking survivors get 'School of Justice' to fight their own battlesMumbai: Woman DJ arrested in high-profile sex racket case	1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 0
Man found dead at Delhi police station, kin allege foul play	A 32-year-old man on Wednesday was found hanging inside the washroom of a Delhi police station after he was called for interrogation. His family alleged that he could have been emotionally and physically tortured. Police said the man was named as a suspect in the kidnapping case of a married woman with whom he had been in a relationship earlier.	An alleged suspect in a kidnapping case was found hanging inside the washroom of the Jahangirpuri police station in north Delhi on Wednesday, hours after he was called by the cops for interrogation.The police claimed it was an ?unprovoked suicide? and denied use of force. An internal inquiry as well as a magisterial probe is in process, police said. The relatives of the deceased suspect foul play in the death.The dead man is 32-year-old Raj Kumar. A native of Kasganj in UP, Kumar was unmarried and worked as a security guard at a government school in Pitampura till a few months ago.?During his stint at that school, he entered into a relationship with a married woman who worked as a peon. Their relationship ended a few months ago and Kumar quit the job and returned to his village,? said a police officer.The woman went missing a few months ago, prompting her husband to file a police complaint and a habeas corpus petition at the Delhi High Court.?The woman?s husband suspected five-six persons. Kumar was one of them,? said the officer. A team was sent to Kumar?s village but when he was found unavailable, he was instructed to report to the Jahangirpuri police station.?Kumar was confident he had no role in the woman?s disappearance. He willingly arrived in Delhi on Tuesday and visited the police station,? said Kumar?s friend, Dharmendra, who dropped him at the police station around 3 pm.Citing the magisterial enquiry, the police refused to share either the sequence of events or the circumstances leading to his death. But Kumar?s relatives quoted investigators as saying he was let off around 10.30 pm.?The investigating officer told me my uncle was allowed to go at 10.30 pm. The same officer tells me the suicide happened at 2 am, over three hours later,? said Kumar?s nephew, Ankit Pachauri.Pachauri and other family members suspected that Kumar could have been physically and emotionally tortured, because of which he killed himself.?A request for post-mortem by a board of doctors is being made. All mandatory actions are being taken,? said Vijayanta Arya, additional DCP (north-west). She said neither was Kumar arrested nor did any evidence of his involvement in the woman?s disappearance emerge in Tuesday?s questioning..	1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 1, 1, 0, 1, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0
Delhi HC reduces aid for 'negligent' accident victim by 45%	The Delhi High Court reduced the compensation awarded to a motor accident victim by 45% after it found negligence on the part of both parties. A compensation of ?10 lakh was earlier awarded to the victim. The court observed, "It's possible despite the vehicle being driven in permissible limit, an accident can occur when a jaywalker suddenly appears on road." 	In an interesting ruling, the Delhi high court reduced the compensation awarded to a motor accident victim by 45 per cent after it found negligence on the part of both the parties.Deepak Kumar, the victim, was hit by a motor vehicle driven by a government employee named Ajay Kumar in Palam.Deepak told the court that while he was on his way to work, he stopped his vehicle after crossing Palam flyover to feed a cow. While he was crossing the road, he was hit and suffered injuries. The trial court had awarded a compensation of Rs 10 lakh to him after ruling negligence on Ajay's part.Ajay challenged the trial court order based on the detailed accident report that mentioned motorcycle was not being driven dangerously or at an excessive speed, and was being driven in its lane and within the permissible speed limit.He sought examination of the contributory negligence on behalf of the injured through advocate Trideep Pais and Pranav Jain. The court observed, "It is possible that despite the vehicle being driven in permissible limit, an accident can occur when a jaywalker suddenly appears on the road.""Such people apart from impairing their own lives also pose a threat to the safety and security of the ongoing traffic. The fact that the victim chose to walk across a busy road near the airport, with heavy morning traffic, he knowingly exposed himself to dangers that such risk may entail. It exhibits his negligence towards his own safety," the court added.Quoting the detailed accident report, the court said if the vehicle was in good condition, being driven in the right lane at the right speed, the accident which was caused at a non-zebra crossing, could be attributed to the sudden appearance of the jaywalker in front of the vehicle.In the circumstances, a portion of the blame and negligence would have to be shared by the claimant. While noting that there was a fair chance of the accident being avoided if the vehicle was being driven at the permissible limit and maintaining fair distance with the vehicle moving ahead of it, the court said, " One has also to bear in mind that not all city roads are carefully marked for pedestrian or zebra crossing.""The time of the accident was about 9.40 am. The visibility was clear. The appellant could have well seen from some distance the movement of the pedestrian crossing the road," the court added.	1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 1, 0
60-yr-old lynched over rumours she was cutting people's hair	A 60-year old Dalit woman was allegedly lynched in Agra after villagers thought that she was behind the recent cases of chopping hair of sleeping women. The family members of the woman who left home around 4 am on Wednesday said, "She pleaded that she had lost her way but they took her as one responsible for chopping women hair."	 A 60-year old Dalit woman was allegedly lynched in Agra after villagers thought she was out to cut the hair of sleeping women, the first reported fatality of what appears to be turning into a case of mass hysteria.Growing number of people, particularly in rural districts, of Haryana, Rajasthan, Delhi, Uttar Pradesh and Madhya Pradesh have reported mysterious instances of sleeping women being attacked and their hair chopped off short.  Family members said Maan Devi left the home around 4am on Wednesday but lost her way, reaching a predominantly upper caste neighbourhood where people spotted her. ?She pleaded that she had lost her way but they took as one responsible for chopping women hair in Mutnai village and killed her,? said the victim?s daughter-in-law Kalpana Jatav.Local police first denied the death was connected to the ?ghost barber? panic. Deputy superintendent of police (DSP), Fatehabad, Dr Tej Veer Singh said a case was registered including charges relating to atrocities against Dalits, and teams were keeping a vigil in the area where the woman was killed.  The police also appeared to deny that the woman was beaten to death. ?The post-mortem report of Maan Devi indicates she died of cardiac arrest and not due to beating,? Singh said. Devi?s son has named two suspects, both from the upper caste Baghel community, in his complaint where he also said that his mother?s body had been thrown back in their village. Till Thursday, neither was arrested.Agra and villages in districts nearby were the latest to report the hair-cutting mystery that seems to be spreading since first being recorded in parts of the National Capital Region last week. Officials said on Friday that more ?sightings? were reported from the region, and the state?s Inspector General issued an appeal for people to remain calm.Women in at least five states have reported waking up to the sound of scissors, spotting black cats, and seeing ghosts and shadows. Some claimed they found portions of their hair chopped off, and others reported falling unconscious with fear.Police have dismissed the allegations as rumours in several of these cases, and administration officials are now issuing alerts for local law enforcement to tackle fear mongering. FROM MONKEY MAN TO UFOsParts of India, particularly rural districts where superstitious beliefs are common, have often been at the centre of mass hysteria events. In the summer of 2001, people in Delhi said they had spotted a mysterious monkey-like creature that appeared in the night and attacked people. Large colonies of the capital were gripped by fear as more and more bizarre ?sightings? were recorded. Vigilante groups patrolled the streets with sticks for weeks, before officials and psychiatric experts said the panic was created by ?figments of people?s imagination? that was made worse by the media coverage at the time.A year later, people in Eastern Uttar Pradesh reported spotting a light-emitting flying object that would attack them at night and scratch their face. Many referred to it as the ?muhnochwa?, a Bhojpuri amalgam that loosely translates to ?face snatcher?. At the height of the panic, people went off streets after sundown. Scientists from IIT Kanpur were roped in to investigate the event, and the ruled out the existence of the creature. The closest explanation, they said, could have been sightings of ball lightening, a rare meteorological phenomenon. Years earlier, in 1995, a more innocuous mass delusion took place when people across the country reported seeing idols of the Hindu god Ganesha drinking milk. 	1, 1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0, 1, 0, 0, 0
Chopper flying critically low led to 2015 Bombay High crash	An inquiry by the Aircraft Accident Investigation Bureau found that the Pawan Hans helicopter was flying at a critically low height, resulting in its crash near Bombay High in 2015. The report further mentioned that the instructor, despite being aware of the low height, didn't take control of the helicopter after the trainee pilot wasn?t able to manage the situation. 	Two years after a helicopter crash near the Bombay High offshore oil field killed two pilots, an inquiry by the Air Accident Investigation Bureau (AAIB) found that the chopper was flying at a critically low height, without the pilots realising it. The Pawan Hans helicopter was on a training sortie on the evening of November 4, 2015. Aviation regulator Director General of Civil Aviation (DGCA) had asked AAIB?to conduct an inquiry. The inquiry report, which was made public on Wednesday, said that the main pilot was flying low and that the other did not realise it. After taking off, the Rontappmeyer (RYTYR) helicopter may have faced difficulties as the moon was waning, the report said. The report mentioned that the instructor, Captain E Samuel, wasn?t disoriented and was aware of the low height of the helicopter. He alerted Captain TK Guha a little late, but even after realising that Guha wasn?t able to manage the situation, Samuel did not take control of the helicopter.AAIB recommended that ONGC, which owns Bombay High along with the helicopter operators, identify helidecks from where night flying can take place. AAIB also said that Pawan Hans pilots need to rest sufficiently before flying. Guha was flying during the night after a gap of almost a year, read the report. READPawan Hans chopper crash: Both pilots on board still missingWatch: Maharashtra CM?s helicopter crash-lands, Devendra Fadnavis safe	1, 1, 0, 1, 0, 1, 1, 1, 1, 0
Congress opens 'State Bank of Tomato' in Lucknow	The Congress party has opened a bank called 'State Bank of Tomato' in Uttar Pradesh's Lucknow, in a protest against the rising prices of the vegetable. People can get interests on deposits and also get vegetables on loan in the bank. "I have deposited 0.5 Kg tomatoes, will get 1 kg after 6 months," said a man.	It sounds like satire, but make no mistake: at a time when tomatoes have become forbiddingly pricey, the Congress Party has opened a 'State Bank of Tomato' in Uttar Pradesh's capital, ANI reported on Wednesday.This extraordinary development comes days after Indore wholesalers leery of tomato thieves requested - and got - security cover for their stock, according to news reports. Heavy rains in tomato-growing states have destroyed crop and affected transportation - a choke on supply which the Goods and Services Tax regime could have possibly exacerbated. Lucknow (UP): In a unique protest against the rising prices of the tomatoes, Congress opens bank called â??State Bank of Tomatoâ??. pic.twitter.com/lNpAaexgMuIn fact, denizens of major cities have had to dish out Rs 100 or more for a kilogram of the kitchen staple.Nevertheless, an official at the Indian Council for Agricultural Research has said he expects supplies from southern states to drive down prices in the next couple of weeks.For the time being, Lucknow residents can obtain interest on deposits at the Congress' State Bank of Tomato, and take the vegetables out on loan, just like money in an actual bank, ANI reported. I have deposited 0.5 Kg tomatoes, will get 1 kg after 6 months. I'm 103-year-old, never thought have to see this: Srikrishna Verma, customer pic.twitter.com/PlXdnSYGvK And if they want to keep their red gold out of the reach of covetous hands, they needn't worry. The news agency reports that State Bank of Tomato provides lockers too.-With inputs from agencies 	1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1, 1
